\# Agrolife: ML Enabled Plant Disease Classification System

In growing nations like India, agriculture plays a huge role, but there
are still major concerns about food security. Plant diseases are the
primary cause of squandered crops and their early detection is crucial
since they have an impact on how much food is produced. This project
proposes a system to visualize different plant illnesses and offer
appropriate advice for curing these problems. Our goal is to determine
whether the plant is sick or not and if it is, to identify the type of
illness that caused it. Along with this, the system gives a general
overview of the illness, suggests a few straightforward home cures (if
necessary), and directs the user toward getting the appropriate
consultation. Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), a deep learning model
is employed to recognize and categorize plant leaf diseases, to display
the type of ailment as well as potential treatments after receiving
input from the user in the form of picture data. Other technologies
utilized include Google Cloud and TensorFlow which is being used for
data preprocessing. Applying the CNN algorithm, it is investigated that
an average classification accuracy of 91% is being achieved to perform
the classification of the leaf diseases. Also by utilizing machine
learning algorithms, the system facilitates farmers in identifying the
optimal crop for their farmland based on inputs such as soil type and
other relevant factors, as well as recommending suitable fertilizers.
This would ultimately enhance productivity and diminish crop losses.

\## Authors

\-[@rutamhaskar\](https://github.com/rutamhaskar)
\-[@anaghaR-01\](https://github.com/anaghaR-01) 
\-[@Ishikaa27\](https://github.com/Ishikaa27)
